.\" Gentoo-Update configuration file man page
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-3.0-or-later
.\"
.TH GENTOO-UPDATE.CONF 5 "January 2024" "gentoo-update 0.1" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
gentoo-update.conf \- configuration file for gentoo-update
.SH DESCRIPTION
The configuration file for
.B gentoo-update
is located at
.I ~/.config/gentoo-update/gentoo-update.conf
.P
The file uses a simple key=value format with optional comments.
Lines starting with # are treated as comments and ignored.
Empty lines are also ignored.
.SH GENERATING THE CONFIGURATION
To create a default configuration file with all available options:
.B gentoo-update \-\-gen\-config
.P
To view the current configuration:
.B gentoo-update \-\-show\-config
.P
To edit the configuration:
.B gentoo-update \-\-edit\-config
.SH CONFIGURATION OPTIONS
.TP
.B NoColor = \fI<bool>\fR
Disable colored terminal output. Valid values: true, false
.br
Default: false
.TP
.B AlwaysShow = \fI<bool>\fR
Always show full output of system commands. Valid values: true, false
.br
Default: false
.TP
.B NewsNum = \fI<integer>\fR
Number of Gentoo news items to display with the
.B \-\-news
option.
.br
Default: 5
.TP
.B KeepOldPackages = \fI<integer>\fR
Number of old package binary versions to keep in the package cache.
Setting to 0 means keep all versions.
.br
Default: 3
.TP
.B KeepInstalledPackages = \fI<integer>\fR
Number of installed package binaries to keep. Setting to 0 means don't
keep any installed binaries (clean them after use).
.br
Default: 0
.TP
.B DiffProg = \fI<string>\fR
Program to use for displaying configuration file differences.
Common choices: vimdiff, meld, diffuse, kompare
.br
Default: vimdiff
.TP
.B CheckInterval = \fI<integer>\fR
Interval in seconds between checks when running in tray mode
.B \-\-tray
.br
Default: 3600 (1 hour)
.TP
.B AutoSync = \fI<bool>\fR
Automatically synchronize Portage repositories before checking for updates.
Valid values: true, false
.br
Default: true
.TP
.B CheckPreservedRebuild = \fI<bool>\fR
Check for packages that need to be rebuilt due to preserved library changes.
Valid values: true, false
.br
Default: true
.TP
.B CheckKernelUpdates = \fI<bool>\fR
Check for available kernel updates. Valid values: true, false
.br
Default: true
.TP
.B CheckConfigFiles = \fI<bool>\fR
Check for configuration files that need updating (etc-update).
Valid values: true, false
.br
Default: true
.TP
.B CheckDistfiles = \fI<bool>\fR
Check for orphaned distfiles that can be cleaned up.
Valid values: true, false
.br
Default: true
.SH EXAMPLE CONFIGURATION
.nf
# Disable colored output
NoColor=false

# Number of news items to display
NewsNum=5

# Keep 3 old package versions
KeepOldPackages=3

# Program for showing config diffs
DiffProg=vimdiff

# Check every hour in tray mode
CheckInterval=3600

# Automatically sync repositories
AutoSync=true

# Enable all checks
CheckPreservedRebuild=true
CheckKernelUpdates=true
CheckConfigFiles=true
CheckDistfiles=true
.fi
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/gentoo-update/gentoo-update.conf
User configuration file (if it exists)
.TP
.I /etc/gentoo-update/gentoo-update.conf
System-wide configuration (if installed)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gentoo-update (1),
.BR etc-update (1),
.BR emerge (1)
.SH NOTES
- Configuration file is optional; defaults are used if the file doesn't exist
- Boolean values must be exactly "true" or "false" (case-sensitive)
- Integer values must be positive numbers
- String values should not be quoted
.SH AUTHOR
Mathieu Roberge (Techoraye) <robergem2008@gmail.com>
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/Techoraye/gentoo-update/issues
.SH LICENSE
Copyright (C) 2024 Mathieu Roberge (Techoraye)
.br
Licensed under the GNU General Public License v3.0 or later.
